Update guidance on switching between branches (#574)
MPAS-Dev/compass: docs/developers_guide/quick_start.rst

set environment variables needed for MPAS or ``compass``.  It will also set an
environment variable ``LOAD_COMPASS_ENV`` that points to the activation script.
``compass`` uses this to make an symlink to the activation script called
``load_compass_env.sh`` in the work directory.  When the load script is
executed from the base of the compass repository (i.e., as
``source ./load_dev_compass_<version>_<machine>_<compiler>_<mpi>.sh``),

> it will install that version of the ``compass`` repo into the associated

Reviewer: ```suggestion
it will install the version of the ``compass`` package from that location into the associated
```

conda environment.  When the load script is executed from the work
directory through the symlink, it will activate the associated conda

> environment, but does *not* install the ``compass`` repo into the conda

Reviewer: ```suggestion
environment, but does *not* install the ``compass`` package into the conda
```

the same ``compass`` version and were set up with the same machine, compiler,
and mpi.  The same conda environment
(``dev_compass_<version>_<machine>_<compiler>_<mpi>``) can safely be used with
multiple branches if you explicitly
reinstall the ``compass`` repo you want to use into the conda environment
before moving to the other branch.  You can do this by simply re-executing
``source ./load_dev_compass_<version>_<machine>_<compiler>_<mpi>.sh``
from the *root of the repo you want to work with* before proceeding.

However, if files have been added or removed between branches, this simple
approach may fail, and you instead need to re-configure the conda environment
for the entire package structure to be re-indexed.
In those situations, it is safest to rerun
``./conda/configure_compass_env.py``  with the same arguments as above to make
sure dependencies are up to date and the ``compass`` package points to the
current directory.

In complex situations, it is also possible to define a user-defined conda
environment name to avoid reusing the same conda environment with multiple
compass branches.  This can be done with the ``--env-name`` argument to

> ``./conda/configure_compass_env.py``.

Reviewer: This is not quit correct and needs some modification.  Before I do that, I need to understand the use case you have in mind.  Is this for using `git checkout` within the same directory or do you have in mind the `git worktree` approach.  I think we need a paragraph describing the right approach for each of these workflows but I want to understand what you're describing here.

It seems like there are a couple of misconceptions here.  First, you should change branches, and then reinstall `compass` (e.g. by sourcing the load script).  That would take care of any issues with files that have been added or deleted.  You don't need to rerun `./cona/configure_compass_env.py` unless dependencies need to be updated.  (It will also reinstall the `compass` package so it will take care of the case you're describing but so would just sourcing the load script after switching branches, rather than before.)

You start out mentioning switching between different `compass` environments but the workflow you describe is just installing different `compass` packages  into the same conda environment.  So I think we need to change that description.

Basically everywhere you describe the `compass` repo, I think you mean the `compass` package, which is effectively the `compass` directory within the `compass` repo (so not the docs, deployment scripts, utilities, submodules, etc.).

I'll revise this as soon as I get clarification on the workflow you want to describe here (`git checkout` vs. `git worktree`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many developers are switching between different ``compass`` branches.
We have 2 main workflows for doing this: checking out different branches
in the same directory (with ``git checkout``) or creating new directories for
each branch (with ``git worktree``).  Either way, you need to be careful that
the version of the ``compass`` package that is installed in the conda
environment you are using is the one you want.  But how to handle it
differs slightly between these workflows.

If you are developing or using multiple ``compass`` branches in the same
directory (switching between them using ``git checkout``), you will need
to make sure you update your ``compass`` environment after changing
branches.  Often the branches you're developing will make use of the 
same conda environment, because they are using the same 
``compass`` version (so the dependencies aren't changing).  The same 
conda environment (e.g. ``dev_compass_<version>``) can safely be used
with multiple branches if you explicitly reinstall the ``compass`` package
you want to use into the conda environment *after* moving a new branch.
You can do this by simply re-executing 
``source ./load_dev_compass_<version>_<machine>_<compiler>_<mpi>.sh``
from the *root of the repo* before proceeding.

Similarly, if you are developing or using multiple ``compass`` branches 
but you use a different directory for each (creating the directories with
 ``git worktree``), you will need to make sure the version of the
 ``compass`` package in your conda environment is the one you want.
If your branches use the same ``compass`` version (so the dependencies
are the same), you can use the same conda environment 
(e.g. ``dev_compass_<version>``) for all of them.  But you will only
be able to test one of them at a time.  You will tell the conda environment
which branch to use by running
``source ./load_dev_compass_<version>_<machine>_<compiler>_<mpi>.sh``
from the *root of the directory (worktree) you want to work with* before
proceeding.

In both of these workflows, you can modify the ``compass`` code and the conda
environment will notice the changes as you make them.  However, if you have 
added or removed any files during your development, you need to source the
load script again:
``source ./load_dev_compass_<version>_<machine>_<compiler>_<mpi>.sh``
in the root of the repo or worktree so that the added or removed files will be
accounted for in the conda environment.

If you know that dependencies that the ``compass`` has different dependencies
in a branch or worktree you are working on compared to a previous branch
you have worked with (or if you aren't sure), it is safest to not just reinstall
the ``compass`` package but also to check the dependencies by re-running:
``./conda/configure_compass_env.py``  with the same arguments as above.
This will also reinstall the ``compass`` package from the current directory.

If you need more than one conda environment (e.g. because you are testing
multiple branches at the same time), you can choose your own name
for the conda environment.  Typically, this might be something related to the
name of the branch you are developing.  This can be done with the 
``--env-name`` argument to ``./conda/configure_compass_env.py``.  You
can reuse the same custom-named environment across multiple branches
if that is useful.  Just remember to reinstall ``compass`` each time you
switch branches.
```

Reviewer: Rereading the text, I *think* you were referring more to the `git worktree` approach because you refer to "the root of the repo you want to work with".  Either way, I think my suggested revisions apply to both.  Could you give this a read and incorporate it in some form?

Thanks so much for getting the ball rolling on this!

Author: @xylar , thanks for editing my description.  I was indeed primarily thinking about the worktree workflow, but I was trying to write the description in a workflow-agnostic way, because I thought the steps did not really change.  What you have written here helps clarify the subtleties and fixes some issues I was confused about. 

Note there are typos in lines 294 and 320, but github won't let me make suggestions on a suggestion so I'll commit your change and then fix them after.
